---
layout: post
title:  "Ham and Potato Soup"
date:   2019-03-15
categories: [ Recipe ]
tags: [ Ham ]
thumbnail: 4.jpg
---

**Description**

15 minutes preparation, 20 minutes cooking time

**Ingredients**

* 6 cups unpeeled baby potatoes, chopped
* 6 carrots, peeled and chopped the same size as potatoes
* 1 cup diced ham 
* 6 cups water
* 1 Tbs chicken base
* 1 tsp salt
* 2 tsp black pepper
* 10 Tbs butter (approx. ½ cup)
* 10 Tbs flour (approx. 1/3 cup)
* 4 cups milk

**Directions**

1. Combine the potatoes, carrots, ham and water in a stockpot. Bring to a boil, then cook over medium heat until potatoes are tender, about 10 to 15 minutes. Stir in the chicken base, salt and pepper.
2. In a separate saucepan, melt butter over medium-low heat. Whisk in flour with a fork, and cook, stirring constantly until thick, about 1 minute. Slowly stir in milk as not to allow lumps to form until all of the milk has been added. Continue stirring over medium-low heat until thick, 4 to 5 minutes.
3. Stir the milk mixture into the stockpot, and cook soup until heated through. Serve immediately.

**Notes**

*ONION FRIENDLY*: Add ½ cup chopped onions in step 1

*VARIATION*: The picture shows this recipe made with ham bought from costco - the "pulled pork" ready-meal. I love that it has a smoky flavor and the pleasant mouth-feel really elevates the dish.

*FREEZER MEAL*: Take the soup off the heat 2 minutes early, quickly chill by pouring into large bowl and placing in sink full of cold water. This way when you thaw and reheat, the potatoes are not mushy. 

*PRO TIP*: Potato choice is VERY important here - do not use russet potatoes. Red potatoes are good but should be peeled. I used thin skinned baby potatoes from a local store as I really don’t like peeling potatoes.

*PRO TIP*: If your roux (step 2) turns out lumpy - throw it in a blender for a few minutes.
