---
layout: post
title:  "Falafel"
date:   2019-03-15
categories: [ Recipe ]
tags: [ ]
thumbnail: 12.jpg
---

10 minutes preparation, 40 minutes cooking time

**Description**

Classic, oven baked version of your favorite middle eastern chick pea ball. With a large food processor, this is simplicity to make!

I am one of the people to whom cilantro tastes like soap, so I never cook with it.

Adapted from the fantastic toriavey recipe.

**Ingredients**

* 2 cans chickpeas (approx 15 oz each)
* 1 small onion, minced
* 1 Tbs dried parsley
* 3 cloves garlic 
* 1 ½ tbsp flour
* 1 ¾ tsp salt
* 2 tsp cumin
* 1 tsp ground coriander
* ¼ tsp black pepper
* ¼ tsp cayenne pepper

**Directions**

1. Preheat oven to 400F
2. Line a large pan with foil and spray liberally with nonstick cooking spray
3. Add all Ingredients to food processor and pulse until texture resembles oatmeal. If your food processor is small, mix all Ingredients in bowl and pulse in batches.
3. Using a cookie dough scoop (ideal) or large tablespoon, scoop balls onto the sheet leaving 1" clearance for air circulation
4. Flatten; spray the back of a flat lifter with nonstick cooking spray and press down the balls one at a time. Respray lifter as often as needed to prevent falafel from sticking.
5. Bake for 40 minutes flipping halfway for even brownness.

**Notes**

*ONION-FREE*: Simply omit, or use 1 Tbs onion powder or 1 Tbs dried onion

*FRESH*: In place of canned chick peas, use 2 cups fresh and soak in water for 8 hours or overnight before use.

*TRADITIONAL*: This same recipe can be used to make fried falafel balls. I will not include sirections, but be careful of consistency

*HEALTHIER*: This can be done without as much cooking spray, but in all likelihood the falafel will not be as crunchy.