---
layout: post
title:  "Plotting"
date:   2019-05-12
categories: [ Writing ]
tags: [ Writing ]
thumbnail: Writing1.png
---

I heard it again and again as I was preparing to start my first novel for NaNoWriMo, but it never truly registered. Writing is HARD.

Here is a timeline of the major events of the past few months.

* October, 2018 - Discover NaNoWriMo. Commit to writing a novel, start writing without any research or planning (pantsing!).
* November, 2018 - Struggle through 50,000 words of a meandering, unstructured novel.
* December, 2018 - Read dozens of books on story structure, plotting, characters, mystery writing, etc
* January, 2019 - Spend over a hundred hours editing. Watch many blogs from writers on YouTube getting advice.
* February, 2019 - Very stupidly submit to a small publisher, naturally they never respond because what I submitted, while much better then October's work, was missing most crucial story elements and didn't follow any of the proper beats and flat character arcs.
* March, 2019 - Reading! I dive into the genre I want to write for and read 20-30 books, from this point on I read at least an hour every night of my target genre. Very little editing occurs because I am so exhausted with editing. This is what happens when you don't outline!
* April, 2019 - Big time research. Another hundred hours analyzing some of my favourite books. Learning to recognize why some books are good and others are not. Dissecting books to identify their character arcs, major plot points, etc. Participate in Camp NaNoWriMo mostly to get myself back into writing.
* May, 2019 - Developing an outline for the trilogy. Reading and writing at least an hour each every night. The outline is finally starting to come together.

It has been quite the journey, and if this were a novel, this would be the "Midpoint", where I change from passive to active, and shift the goal from "publish something" to "write a story I love."
