---
layout: post
title:  "Apple Pie"
date:   2019-03-15
categories: [ Recipe ]
tags: [ ]
thumbnail: 27.jpg
---


This apple pie is very straightforward to make with the only time consuming step being peeling and coring apples. If you have a hand operated apple peeler/corer it will save you tons of time. 

20 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking time

**Ingredients**

Pie

* 1 package cream cheese, softened
* 1 cup butter, softened
* 3 ¼ cups flour, divided (3 cups, ¼ cup)
* 10 Granny Smith apples, peeled cored and sliced into small sections
* 1 ¼ cups sugar
* 1 tsp. ground cinnamon
* ½ tsp nutmeg

Glaze

* ¾ tsp powdered sugar
* 1 Tbs. water

**Directions**

1. Preheat oven to 400 F
2. Beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until well blended
3. Gradually add 3 cups flour, mixing on low after each addition until just blended
4. Shape dough into 2 balls, place one on large lightly floured sheet of waxed paper
5. Cover with second floured sheet of wax paper and roll out to 15x10" rectangle. Discard second sheet of wax paper. 
6. Gently press onto bottom and sides of a rectangular pan
7. Toss apples with remaining flour, sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, spread onto crust
8. Repeat rolling out of remaining dough ball to make second rectangle, or any other shapes you wish (lattice, hearts, etc).
9. Carefully place dough on top of apples, tucking edges together. Make several  steam vent slits in top crust
10. Bake in middle rack of oven for 30 minutes or until crust is golden brown
11. Meanwhile, mix powered sugar and water to form glaze.
12. Cool dessert 15 minutes before drizzling glaze over top. Cool 30 minutes before cutting into bars.

**Notes**

*PRO TIP*: For that lovely golden colored crust, brush with egg white prior to baking

*PRO TIP*: The choice of apples here is very important. I firmly believe you can make pie with any type of apple, but if you try any SWEET variety with this recipe it will likely be too sweet

*PRO TIP*: Forgot to soften your butter? Hit it in the microwave for 30 seconds or until you see a SMALL amount of liquid butter at the bottom. While not ideal for some recipes, it will work for this one :)